Let's walk through the code for the look away node step-by-step.
The included header files are similar to those in arm mover,
except this time we include the JointState header file.
This allows us to read back the arm joints positions.
We also include the image header file so that we can use the camera data.
Inside of C plus plus main function,
the look away node is initialized and
ros NodeHandle object n is instantiated to communicate with ros.
A client object is created here.
This object can request GoToPosition responses from the arm mover safe moves service,
recreated earlier in the arm mover node.
This client object is defined globally,
so we can request services within any function.
In particular, the request happens in the move arm center function.
The first subscriber objects sub1,
subscribes to the simple arm joint states topic.
By subscribing to this topic,
we can track the arm position by reading the angle of each joint.
The queue size is set to 10,
meaning that a maximum of 10 messages can be stored into queue.
The data from each new incoming message is passed to the joint states callback function.
The second subscriber object sub2 subscribes to the RGB camera image raw topic.
The queue size is also set to 10.
The look way callback function is called every time a new message arrives.
This function will first check if the image is uniform and the arm is not moving.
If true, it will move the arm to the center.
Then our spin function simply blocks until a shutdown request is received by the node.
When the sub1 object receives a message on the simple arm joint states topic,
the message is passed through a joint states call back in the variable js.
The joint states callback function checks if the current joint states provided in js
are the same as the previous joint states which are
stored in the global joints last position variable.
If the current and previous joint state are the same,
up to a specified error tolerance,
then the arm has stopped moving,
and the moving state flag is set to false.
This flag is defined globally so as to be shared with other functions in the code.
On the other hand, if the current and previous joint states are different,
then the arm is still moving.
In this case, the function sets moving state to true and
updates the joints last position variable with current position data.
The look away callback function receives image data from the RGB camera image row topic.
The callback function first checks if all color values in
the image are the same as the color value of the first pixel.
Then, if all color values in the image or the same,
meaning a uniform image and if the arm is not moving,
the move arm center function is called.
Inside the move arm center function,
a GoToPosition request message is created and sent using
the arm mover safe move service moving both joint angles by 1.57 radians.